---
title:  "MongoDB"
tags: mongodb database nosql
---

Structure
-

RDBMS      | MongoDB
-----------|---------
Database   | Database
Table      | Collection
Row        | Document
Column     | Field
Table Join | Embedded Document
Primary Key| ObjectId


ObjectId is a 12 byte binary BSON type, composed of

Size   | Description
-------| -----------
4 bytes| Unix timestamp (in second)
3 bytes| Client machine ID
2 bytes| Client process ID
3 bytes| Incremented Counter, starting with a random value

Advantages over RDBMS
-
* Schema less: Number of fields, content and size of the document can differ from one document to another
* No complex joins
* Ease of scale-out

## Designing Schema in MongoDB

- Design schema according to user requirements.
- Combine objects into one document if you will use them together. Otherwise separate them (but make sure there should not be need of joins).
- Duplicate the data (but limited) because disk space is cheap as compare to compute time.
- Do joins while write, not on read.
- Optimize your schema for most frequent use cases.
- Do complex aggregation in the schema.

## Create Collection
- `db.createCollection(name, options)`
- option `capped`. Capped Collection is a fixed size collection that automatically overwrites its oldest entries when it reaches its maximum size
- `size` (in bytes) and `max` (number of documents) in the capped collection.

## Data types
- Min/ Max keys − This type is used to compare a value against the lowest and highest BSON elements.

## Replica

MongoDB can provide high availability with replica sets. 

A replica set consists of two or more mongo DB instances. Each replica set member may act in the role of the primary or secondary replica at any time. 

The primary replica is the main server which interacts with the client and performs all the read/write operations. 

The Secondary replicas maintain a copy of the data of the primary using built-in replication. 

When a primary replica fails, the replica set automatically switches over to the secondary and then it becomes the primary server.


## Sharding

Sharding is a concept in MongoDB, which splits large data sets into small data sets across multiple MongoDB instances.

It is a MongoDB approach to meet the demands of data growth. It is the horizontal partition of data in a database or search engine. Each partition is referred as shard or database shard.

Components of Shard:

- A Shard: a MongoDB instance which holds subset of the data
- Config server: a MongoDB instance which holds metadata about cluster
- A router: a MongoDB which redirect the commands send by client to the right server

Indexing in MongoDB

# References

- [Top 20 MongoDB Interview Questions & Answers](https://www.guru99.com/mongodb-interview-questions.html)
- [MongoDB Sharding](https://www.guru99.com/mongodb-sharding-implementation.html)
- [MongoDB - Advantages](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/mongodb/mongodb_advantages.htm)

# Read more
